**CS-305 Software Security: Project Two**

Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and its software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did the company want you to address?
- The client, Artemis Financial, is a monetary consulatation firm that develops financial plans for clients, such as investment, savings, and insurance packages. The solution that Artemis Financial required was the development of a secure web portal that could allow clients to access their private account info online. 

What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?
- I believe that when performing a manual review of the client's code, I successfuly found a number of logic errors in the script that allowed unchecked input and output to pass to and from the clients web-browser. While assuming that the client's end-users should have full access to all elements within their private portal, it should not be assumed that the end-users are always going to be the one's attempting to view these scase-specific generated web pages. Protecting private info so that it is only accessible by the end-user ensures that no malicious actor, external or otherwise possibly even internal, can access a user's private data without it being directly provided to them. All actor specific data should be considered private, and handled in a manner that prevents external viewing or manipulation.

Which part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
- The most challenging part of the vulnerability assessment was in regards to the utilized framework's dependencies. The vulnerabilities in these nested dependencies are hard to track, and can be difficult to mitigate as it is not always clear when they come into play. The Spring Boot framework utilizes numerous dependencies that handle YAML and JSON parsing, with present vulnerabilities in these dependencies, it's difficult to implement solutions without nearly rewriting the entire functionality of the script, or implemnenting helper methods to catch all instances of unchecked data thay may exploit these specific vulnerabilies.

How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
- One way I increased security in the application is by implementing OWASP's HTML sanitizer to ensure that any parsed input from the URL request was checked and cleaned against a well-established and up-to-date filter, as trying to implement my own sanitation check would have likely been very limited and crude in comparison. In other manners, I utilized OWASP's dependency check tool to analyze the program for potential risks and vulnerabilities and used this info to either implement fixes to protect against known exploits, or to guide development to avoid the usage of vulnerable dependencies.

How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
- After refactoring the code, I ran cutom test cases to attempt to inject or hijack the program or connection to enxure that all security features were functioning properly. I attempted multiple injection and DoS attacks, as well as request indexing, to try and manipulate the application and pull unauthorized data. To check for new vulnerabilities, I ran new passes of OWASP's dependency check tool to verify that none of my changes to the POM.xml introduced new vulnerabilities, I also relied on peer review of my code to check for any shortcomings in my script.

What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
- While building an application on an existing framework was new for me, and quite useful, I found Maven to be very useful for importing other useful resources and tools such as the dependency check plugin. 

Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
- What skills I could demonstrate to future employers from this assignment would be my ability to develop a web application within an outdated Java framework and check for as well as mitigate security risks. I could also show a demonstration of my ability to check and validate user input and the handling of untrusted web data. While there are still many area for improvement in this application, I now have a good understanding of what goes into refactoring older source code on relic frameworks to hold up to modern standards. As well as how to update insecure dependencies and even disable them if necessary.
